README.md, before:

# (MML) 3D Web Experience

This repository contains packages used to run a web-based, multi-user 3D web experience that
supports [MML (Metaverse Markup Language)](https://mml.io/). This repository includes two published
packages:

- [`@mml-io/3d-web-client-core`](./packages/3d-web-client-core) - A package that implements the main
  components of a 3D web experience.
- [`@mml-io/3d-web-user-networking`](./packages/3d-web-user-networking) - A package that contains
  WebSocket server and client implementations that synchronize user positions.

There is an example implementation of a 3D web experience in the `examples` directory. This example
contains:

- `web-client`
  - A THREE.js 3D experience utilizing the `@mml-io/3d-web-client-core` and
    `@mml-io/3d-web-user-networking` packages to create a multi-user 3D web client that connects to
    the server.
- `server`
  - A server which serves the `web-client` and handles user networking WebSocket connections with
    `@mml-io/3d-web-user-networking`
  - Additionally, the server runs MML documents in the `mml-documents` directory which are then
    connected to by the `web-client`.

It can be easily deployed to environments that support Node.js and expose ports to the internet.

<img src="./playground.png">

## Main features

- Multiple users can connect to the experience using just a web browser.

- Users can interact simultaneously with the stateful MML documents.

- Easy to deploy and extend with interactive MML content.

## Running locally

Making sure you have Node.js installed, run the following from the root of the repository:

```bash
npm install
npm run iterate
```

Once the example server is running, open `http://localhost:8080` in your browser.

Commit message:

User Authentication (#124)
* Simplistic user-system with full MML-Support for characters

A simplistic User-System allowing authorization, usernames and different MML-Characters with (permissioned) inventory for global and unique items.
This is easily adapted to centralized databases and NFT-based blockchain-applications.

Refer the User-System section in README.md for examples and details.

Technically
- Adds UserId which is hardcoded into the web-client
-
- A simplistic protocol with UserData message (for client-initated
  changes) and UserUpdate-message (for server-authorized distribution of
user-details such as username, character, ..)
- A simplistic inventory system supporting unique items, which can at
  most be used once within a 3d-web-experience.

Code structured in a way s.t. it can easily be adapted to actual
applications and authorization structures

* User networking auth with chat

* Allow reusing sessions to aid developer experience

* Fix ExampleEnforcingUserAuthenticator

---------

Co-authored-by: Thomas Bergmueller <thomas.bergmueller@authenticvision.com>
Co-authored-by: Marco Gomez <me@mgz.me>

README.md, after:

# (MML) 3D Web Experience

This repository contains packages used to run a web-based, multi-user 3D web experience that
supports [MML (Metaverse Markup Language)](https://mml.io/). This repository includes two published
packages:

- [`@mml-io/3d-web-client-core`](./packages/3d-web-client-core) - A package that implements the main
  components of a 3D web experience.
- [`@mml-io/3d-web-user-networking`](./packages/3d-web-user-networking) - A package that contains
  WebSocket server and client implementations that synchronize user positions.

There is an example implementation of a 3D web experience in the `examples` directory. This example
contains:

- `web-client`
  - A THREE.js 3D experience utilizing the `@mml-io/3d-web-client-core` and
    `@mml-io/3d-web-user-networking` packages to create a multi-user 3D web client that connects to
    the server.
- `server`
  - A server which serves the `web-client` and handles user networking WebSocket connections with
    `@mml-io/3d-web-user-networking`
  - Additionally, the server runs MML documents in the `mml-documents` directory which are then
    connected to by the `web-client`.
  - A simple session-based [auth system](#auth) that can be used as a reference to implement arbitrary http-based auth. 

It can be easily deployed to environments that support Node.js and expose ports to the internet.

<img src="./playground.jpg">

## Main features

- Multiple users can connect to the experience using just a web browser.

- Users can interact simultaneously with the stateful MML documents.

- Easy to deploy and extend with interactive MML content.

## Running locally

Making sure you have Node.js installed, run the following from the root of the repository:

```bash
npm install
npm run iterate
```

Once the example server is running, open `http://localhost:8080` in your browser.

## Auth
- When the client page is rendered by the server the server uses a UserAuthenticator implementation to determine if a session should be generated for the incoming http request and if so includes that session token on the client page.
- The client then sends the session token in the first message to the server when it connects via websocket.
- The server can use the session token to authenticate the user and determine what identity (username, avatar etc) the user should have.
- An example implementation of this is provided in the example server, but the interface is extensible enough that a more complex user authenticator can limit which avatar components should be permitted based on external systems.
